are you new to making content for social
media are you trying to grow on
Instagram or Tick Tock or YouTube and
are you wondering what gear and gadgets
you need in order to have success well
if so you're in the right place because
in this video I'm going to share with
you my Essential starter kit the 10
things that every content creator needs
in their tool belt in order to have
success on social media
before hi there
Rock Johnson and it's my job to help
people grow and monetize their following
on social media I posted my first
YouTube video when I was about 10 years
old I have over 300 000 followers on
Tick Tock and over the past few years
I've grown my Instagram following from
less than 50 000 to now over 600 000
followers and so before we even get into
this list of essential tools and gadgets
let me just tell you that the best tool
or Gadget that you can have is the
ability to be resourceful and to make
the most of what you already have
oftentimes if you use the things that
you already have around your home but
you use them to their full capacity or
their full potential you're gonna have a
lot more success rather than wasting
your money buying new things that you
don't necessarily need I know that
oftentimes myself I'm tempted to buy
whatever the new Gadget is and spend a
bunch of money on whatever the newest
hot thing is but really if I go back to
that one piece of gear that's been in my
drawer for the last 15 years if I use
that and I use it the way it was meant
to be used then it's going to get the
job done for me and also I want to say
that you want necessarily need anything
on this list all of these things would
be essential if you are looking to get
gear if you are looking to take things
to the next level if you are looking to
get started and really take things
seriously then I would recommend
checking out some of the things that I'm
about to list but by all means you can
get by with just your smartphone 10
years ago maybe this wasn't so true but
nowadays where everyone's smartphone
shoots in 4k quality and has a pretty
decent microphone honestly you can do a
lot with just that little square that
you might even be watching this video on
right now but I understand that's not
why you're here you're here because you
want recommendations you want the actual
list of things that I would tell you to
go out and buy if you have a gift card
if you have money you're looking to
spend or maybe if you're looking to buy
a gift for your son or daughter who's
maybe looking to become a content
creator themselves you're in the right
place and I'm going to share all of the
essential gear and gadgets with you
right now number zero on the top ten
which I'm not even gonna put into the
top 10 is something that is kind of like
the foundation the thing that everyone
pretty much starts out with and that is
a tripod and a ring light I will put a
link to every single product that I
mentioned in this video down in the
description below and I will let you
know that those links are most likely
going to be almost exclusively affiliate
links which essentially means that for
any product that you buy those companies
will pay me a small fee some of these
are Amazon affiliate links so the
percentage is very very small but I did
want to make that disclaimer and the
disclaimer to my disclaimer is that none
of the products that I'm mentioning
today are because they're sponsored none
today am I mentioning just because I
want the affiliate Kickback I'm
mentioning these products because I know
them I use them I've been using them for
years and I really trust these companies
and these products and that's why I'm
recommending them to you ring lights are
of course super popular and they're
super popular because they're very
versatile they're very easy to use they
really light up the main subject if
you're doing like one person videos if
you're doing YouTube videos or Instagram
reels or maybe live streams a ring light
is a great place to start and they
really vary in terms of size and price
my favorite ring light are from newer
Lighting systems and again the link is
down in the description I've had my
newer ring light for about five to ten
years now and it's never had any issues
it's never had any problems I've beaten
the thing up I've traveled with it and
it continues to work just fine and of
course the other non-negotiable the
other basic is a tripod I have mine
right here by geek Odo and it's really
versatile very easy to use I can just
pop open these little latches and extend
the legs it works for about 99 of the
shots that I want to get and if you're
wondering why you should invest in a
tripod it's just for the stability so
that you don't always have to be holding
your phone or holding your camera selfie
style you can set it up you can get more
Dynamic shots and you have more
stability over all of your different
camera angles one last thing before we
get into the top 10 make sure you're
subscribed to this YouTube channel if
you aren't already I don't want to beg
you it's not my job to sit here and
plead with you to subscribe to our
YouTube channel but I do want to
encourage you to press subscribe if you
are someone who is looking to grow their
following or make money online because
every single week we post two new
YouTube videos at least two new YouTube
videos two new podcast episodes helping
you figure out how to grow online and
how to make money from your following so
if that's something you're into I want
to encourage you to press that subscribe
button but let's get into the top 10
right now this top 10 is not necessarily
in order from best to worst this is just
the top 10 things that I think everyone
needs in any random order and the first
one was something that I didn't have for
the longest time and because of it I had
to find a lot of let's call them sketchy
workarounds and that first one is a
laptop stand if you're someone who's
constantly doing Zoom meetings you're
doing webinars or you just like to work
from Dynamic and variable locations a
laptop stand is exactly right for you
laptop stands can essentially function
as your portable desk allowing you to
work in a wide variety of locations and
they can also be awesome if you're
someone who likes to use scripts for
your content essentially you could have
your tripod set up with your phone or
your camera to record and then next to
that you could have your laptop stand
with your notes pulled up or your script
pulled up so that you have it readily
available and you don't have to read
things off your phone the entire time in
fact right now while I'm recording this
podcast I have my camera set up right
here and obviously I'm talking directly
to you but my microphone is plugged into
my laptop which is right here and my
laptop is on my laptop stand and my
laptop has all of my notes and bullet
points pulled up on it so I'm quite
literally practicing what I'm preaching
item number two is a canvas lamp now a
canvas lamp is very similar to a ring
light and essentially it is a ring light
but it's so much more than that as well
canvas is a small family-owned company
based in the USA and they make a really
high quality lamps and I think that's
one of the problems with ring lights is
oftentimes they're really big and bulky
and they're not very good looking like
you don't really want to leave your ring
light out unless you don't really care
about the Aesthetics of your office
right it's just a big light and
oftentimes it's going to be turned off
the canvas lamp however sits on my desk
24 7 365 and I'm okay with that because
it looks really nice it looks
presentable it looks pretty it's very
high quality it's durable it's well made
and at the same time it provides me with
a great quick and easy lighting solution
for when I'm doing live streams when I'm
filming tick tocks or when I want to
film an overhead video let's say of
myself maybe working on my phone typing
on my laptop or writing something in my
notebook next up on the list is a flip
stick and a flip stick for those of you
who don't know or haven't seen them
before they were actually on Shark Tank
a few years ago and it's essentially
kind of like a pop socket except for it
has a sticky mount on the back of it and
I have one on my phone right here this
is actually from a custom collaboration
that I did with them where it says keep
it real and I actually just have this on
my phone case rather than directly on my
phone essentially how it works is you
just flip out this little piece of
plastic right here and it reveals this
little blue sticky part which is
reusable and you can very easily clean
it with just like a damp cloth and it
sticks to any flat surface so I've
experimented with a lot of other phone
mounts before ones that are suction cup
and what I've found is that they just
don't always stick I've tried ones that
are magnetic and the problem with those
is well then obviously you can only
Stick it to Magnetic surfaces but with
the flipstick I can literally Stick it
to any flat surface and film myself so
this is really convenient for me when
I'm filming out on the go this is
convenient for me when I don't
necessarily want to bring my tripod or
when I have a quick idea for a piece of
content that I want to film but I forgot
to bring my tripod with me that day I
can easily just flip out my flipstick
stick it to any flat surface and then
I'm ready to go and start recording next
up on the list is a lavalier plug-in
microphone now I know we're all tempted
to go with the latest technology and to
get a Bluetooth microphone so we can
have less cords but from what I've found
and just if you think about the way the
technology actually works you're going
to get better audio quality out of a
wired microphone and without getting too
technical about this basically let's
just think about how it works if you
have a Bluetooth microphone essentially
the mic has to condense your audio down
into a small enough file size that it
can be quickly if not immediately sent
over Bluetooth and then connect to your
device and unpack it that's why the
Apple airpods no matter how expensive or
how high quality they are your phone
calls always sound better on the old
Apple wired earbuds than they do on the
new expensive apple airpods and for that
reason I recommend purchasing a wired
lavalier microphone lavalier microphones
or a law of mics for short are ones that
you often see used in news casting and
things like that where they basically
just clip onto your shirt like this very
easy to use they plug right into your
device depending on what kind of plug it
comes with and I purchased this one
seven years ago and it still works to
this day my Pro tip when you're looking
for a lavalier microphone or when you're
clicking on the link down in the
description is to go with one that has a
longer cord this one is obviously all
wound up right now but it's about a 10
foot long cord and that allows me a lot
of freedom and flexibility in my
recording so I can plug this directly
into my phone and then I can stand far
away from it but the audio will still be
high quality also because the cord
itself is very long I have the ability
to tuck it away I could put it behind my
back I could run it along the floor and
then that way it's not going to show up
in any of my content it's not going to
make my my filming look messy or look
disorganized with some random wires
shooting across the screen instead I can
tuck it away so the only thing that's
visible is the actual microphone itself
also like I said I purchased this
microphone seven years ago it still
works it still works perfectly in fact a
lot of the podcasts that you've heard
here on build your tribe especially from
the winter when my wife and I were
traveling full time in our Airstream
trailer a lot of them were just recorded
on this I didn't always have the
capability of pulling out my
professional microphone or even having
access to my laptop so I would just grab
this little microphone which cost about
20 bucks I would plug it directly into
my phone and press record board and it
was able to basically pass as a
professional high quality mic also I
want to take a quick pause and focus on
the importance of high quality audio and
using microphones oftentimes when we
think about video we think about content
creation we're so focused on HD high
quality video how do I get my video more
crispy how do I get the blurry
background where my foreground is really
in Focus how do I set up my studio to
look really professional and we focus so
much on the visual but we forget that
the audio is half of video content
whether you're watching someone on a
YouTube video You're consuming a real a
tick tock or anything else audio is half
a video and so we shouldn't neglect
audio quality and one of the simplest
easiest ways to improve audio quality is
just to use an actual microphone rather
than using the built-in microphone which
I will say is significantly improving in
smartphones using an external microphone
and using it the right way is a Surefire
way to improve your audio quality and
and your content should perform a lot
better because of it my fifth essential
Gadget is an Apple Watch and I know this
might be a little bit confusing for some
people and I know some people you're not
on iPhone so this might not pertain to
you as it is but if you're in the US
where the majority of people are iPhone
users I would recommend getting yourself
an Apple Watch even if it's a cheap old
Apple watch and even if you're only
using it for your content and there's
one key reason and that is that I am
able to use my Apple watch as a
viewfinder I think it's been widely
documented but in case you didn't know
the back camera the outward facing
camera on most devices is going to be
much higher quality than the front
camera even if they say that they both
shoot in 4k the amount of pixels in the
outward facing or the back camera is
always going to be higher quality but
the issue is when I'm filming with the
back camera obviously I'm not able to
see what I look like I'm not able to
frame up my shot I'm not able to make
sure that I'm in Focus I'm not able to
make sure that the exposure is set
correctly and so I'm kind of left just
guessing at what my video will look like
that is unless I use my Apple watch
there's a built-in app that comes on the
Apple watch standard that allows me to
connect to my phone and then see what my
camera is seeing so then I can set up my
phone however I want open the app on my
watch and I don't have to like peek
around the phone really quick and make
sure everything's looking good I can
control it all from my watch I can start
and stop recording I can take pictures I
can zoom in and zoom out and I can even
change focus and exposure right from my
watch without having to get up from my
seat or look at my phone so maybe an
older Apple watch one that might be used
or not even in the best condition can
make a big difference when you're
filming especially if you're someone who
primarily uses their phone for filming
their content Gadget number six that I'm
going to recommend for you is a shotgun
microphone and a shotgun microphone is a
term that essentially refers to any mic
that usually will sit on top of the
camera like this and it will kind of
shoot out like a shotgun would towards
whatever it is that you are pointing the
camera at of course there are lots of
different options when it comes to
microphones but I generally look for
rode microphones rode microphones are
some of the best audio quality and the
best made microphones especially when it
comes to shooting on DSLR or shooting on
a professional camera and so especially
if you're someone who does vlogging I
would highly recommend picking up a
shotgun or a mini shotgun microphone
like this one this one goes right on top
of my camera it screws on nice and snug
plugs right in and it really improves
the audio quality and then I don't have
to worry about a six foot long cord
dangling from my mic while I'm walking
around vlogging and it's also much
smaller and much more compact so it
allows me to fit everything into my
backpack or even into my pocket much
easier and they now even make shotgun
microphones that can clip right onto the
bottom of your phone so essentially you
can do the same thing as I just
described with a camera but with the
phone and again this essentially allows
you to have more flexibility with your
content because if all you have is this
one little microphone plugged in to the
bottom of your phone or into the top of
your camera you don't have to worry
about cords you don't have to worry
about miking up multiple people
basically if the camera is pointed at
the subject who is speaking or that's
making sounds and you're within a
relatively close distance let's say less
than 10 feet the shotgun microphone is
going to pick it up and do a great job
of improving your audio quality the next
essential Gadget is going to be for you
if you're someone who does streaming if
you're someone who does live broadcast
if you're someone who makes YouTube
videos or podcasts and this is something
that I recently received as a gift and I
was blown away it's the comica ad3 link
flex and essentially what it allows you
to do is it allows you to take
professional microphones like this sure
sm7b and plug the XLR cable into an
adapter that boosts this audio because
sure sm7b audio is usually very low it
allows you to boost the audio and plug
it directly into your computer your
camera or your phone basically thanks to
this cool little battery powered Gadget
I'm able to use this professional
high-end microphone without needing all
of the necessary sound boards and audio
mixers that a professional recording
studio might usually use and in fact for
my first few years of using this
microphone I had all of the professional
audio mixing equipment and it cost a
couple hundred dollars and I never
really knew how to use it that well I
never really needed to use it that well
because the basic functions was enough
for me recording these podcasts and
these YouTube videos so recently I
switched to the much less expensive
comica link flex ad3 and it's made a
huge difference so easy to use this
thing I could not not add this to the
list because it's been such a useful
gadget for me number eight on the list
is quick release mounts quick release
mounts will make everything in your
process if you're someone who does
filming so much faster so much easier
and so much more efficient there's not
much worse as someone who is filming
video content especially someone who
films a lot of content by themselves
then constantly unscrewing your tripod
mount and then you're mounting your
phone mount onto the tripod you gotta
screw it back in and then oh now you
need to switch to a different tripod so
now you're unscrewing that one you're
just constantly screwing cameras and
tripods and phones and mounts on top of
one another and it takes a lot of time
so instead you can purchase a quick
release Mount which allows you to
quickly and easily swap out what cameras
and mounts you have on different tripods
I would recommend buying a quick release
Mount to go on top of every tripod you
have or on the bottom of every camera
and mount that you have piece of gear
Gadget number nine is a phone stabilizer
and one of the things that I Love About
Phone stabilizers is that their price
continues to drop year after year as the
technology becomes more refined and more
available I remember when these things
first launched and they cost a few
hundred dollars and of course you could
still invest in a really high quality
phone stabilizer that might cost you a
few hundred dollars but there are also
plenty of options online that are about
a hundred dollars or even less and we'll
do an awesome job of stabilizing your
phone so if you're someone who records a
lot of content from their mobile device
you make a lot of content for tick tock
you record a lot of Vlogs or maybe you
do a lot of Instagram stories where
you're maybe active or walking around or
moving a phone stabilizing Mount can be
a really awesome addition to your tool
belt I know that I use mine all the time
whenever I'm filming long form content
that isn't just sitting here at a desk
if I'm ever on a walk and recording thus
making my video more dynamic or if I'm
ever doing a vlog where I'm out you know
not sitting in my office I always bring
my phone stabilizer with me but having
that little difference where my phone
can be perfectly steady and stable on
this Mount makes such a huge difference
in the end quality of my video so the
10th gear or Gadget that I would
recommend is an essential for your tool
belt is some sort of quick easy mobile
lighting I have this little Loom cube
panel mini and this thing is awesome
it's super bright it allows me to
completely control the brightness and
the Hue I can in fact do multiple
different colors I think it has a full
RGB Spectrum on this little guy and it's
very powerful I've actually used it in a
lot of my videos to light up my
backdrops or even use it as a hair light
this device was actually left at my
office by my mom this is what she likes
to use this is made by newer so the same
company that makes the ring lights that
I love this is also super bright it also
has lots of diversity and flexibility in
terms of how bright and the warmth or
coolness of the light and what I like
especially about this light that I'm
going to steal from my mom is that it
has a clip on the bottom so it can very
easily clip onto let's say your laptop
if you're someone who does a lot of live
streaming and as you can see here
there's a little tiny hole in the clip
so that the camera lens can actually
look right through that so again I can
clip this right onto my laptop or even
right onto my phone and it won't
obstruct the camera lens and it will
still provide me with that brightness
that I need oh and another awesome thing
about this light in particular is it has
a phone mount on the back so I can very
easily attach my phone to it just like
this and then if I open the camera mode
now this camera is able to shoot and
it's able to be lit up by the Light just
like this thus really improving my video
quality thank you so much for watching
today I hope you found this video useful
and helpful in your search for gear and
Gadget to get started bottom line just
get started whether you only have a
phone or you have a ten thousand dollar
budget to buy every piece of equipment
you might need I want to encourage you
to just get started rip that Band-Aid
off just press record and then make sure
to just press upload once you're done
recording but again thank you so much
for watching or listening today and I
would love to hear from you down in the
comments was there any gear or Gadget
that surprised you or was there any gear
or gadgets that I left off this list
that you thought should be added is
there an essential piece of equipment
that you use in your daily rotation that
I left out of this video please let us
know down in the comments and we'll make
sure to include those in future videos
as well and as always happy networking
[Music]